.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, before:

If Homebrew was updated on Aug 10-11th 2016 and `brew update` always says `Already up-to-date.` you need to run: `cd "$(brew --repo)" && git fetch && git reset --hard origin/master && brew update`.

# Please follow the general troubleshooting steps first:

- [ ] Ran `brew update` and retried your prior step?
- [ ] Ran `brew doctor`, fixed as many issues as possible and retried your prior step?
- [ ] Confirmed this is problem with Homebrew/brew and not specific formulae? If it's a formulae-specific problem please file this issue at https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew-core/issues/new

_You can erase any parts of this template not applicable to your Issue._

### Bug reports:

Please replace this line with a brief summary of your issue **AND** the output of `brew config` and `brew doctor`.

### Propose a feature:

Instead of creating an issue here, please create a pull request with your change proposal in the [Homebrew Evolution](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew-evolution) repository using the [proposal template](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew-evolution/blob/master/proposal_template.md).

Commit message:

Tweak issue template and contributing guidelines.
- Note issues may be closed without comment if sufficient information is
  not provided.
- Deprecate Homebrew/brew-evolution, note new feature request flow
- Note some issues should be created on Homebrew/brew

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, after:

If Homebrew was updated on Aug 10-11th 2016 and `brew update` always says `Already up-to-date.` you need to run: `cd "$(brew --repo)" && git fetch && git reset --hard origin/master && brew update`.

# Please follow the general troubleshooting steps first:

- [ ] Ran `brew update` and retried your prior step?
- [ ] Ran `brew doctor`, fixed as many issues as possible and retried your prior step?
- [ ] Confirmed this is problem with Homebrew/brew and not specific formulae? If it's a formulae-specific problem please file this issue at https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew-core/issues/new

_You can erase any parts of this template not applicable to your Issue._

### Bug reports:

Please replace this section with a brief summary of your issue **AND** the output of `brew config` and `brew doctor`. Please note we may immediately close your issue without comment if you do not fill out the issue template and provide the requested information.

### Propose a feature:

Please replace this section with a detailed description of your proposed feature, the motivation for it and alternatives considered. Please note we may close this issue or ask you to create a pull-request if it's something we're not actively planning to work on.
